John Wendell Morrisett|John Wendell Morrisett (Johnny) was born to Andrew and Rosamond (Donaldson) Morrisett on November 18, 1942. Johnny was born on the family farm SE of Crescent and went to be with his Lord and Savior at the same home on March 31, 2015. He married the love of his life, Leota Jeanne Anderson on April 24, 1961. Together they raised 3 children Jerry, Suzanne, and John Justin. Most of his career was spent in the oil exploration business working in many capacities with the last few spent as an independent drilling consultant. Johnny was always respected as honest and hardworking. After retirement in 2005, Leota and he started the life of travel. They went many places, but the favorite locations were Gunnison, Colorado in the summers and South Texas in the winter months where they enjoyed their many friends and family. One of his greatest passions was fishing. Johnny didnít mind if it was a pond, river or lake, as long as the fish were biting! He also enjoyed traveling the off-road trails to see the country and its majestic beauty. His grandchildren and great grandchildren brought smiles to his face and joy to his heart, and traveling to see them was another reason to load up and go! Johnny was a member of the First Baptist Church of Crescent, and Adult IV Sunday School class. He is survived by his beloved wife Leota, of the home; son Jerry Morrisett and wife Pam of Crescent, daughter Suzanne Cardin and husband Randy of Crescent, and son John Justin and wife Teresa of Charleston SC. Six grandchildren; Emily Williams, Eric Morrisett, Jessica Morrisett, Aimee Peak, Bailey, Morrisett, and Tyler Morrisett. Five Great Grandchildren; Lane Williams, Reagan Williams, Alec Morrisett, Luke Williams, and Bentleigh Peak, and many nieces and nephews. He is also survived by brother Kelly Morrisett of Crescent and Marilyn Mewherter of Lacey, OK. He was preceded in death by his parents and brother Larry Morrisett of Kingfisher. Memorial Service will be held at 10:30 am Monday April 6, 2015 at the First Baptist Church in Crescent, OK. Officiated by Reverend Steve Black under direction of Abernathy Aaron Funeral Home. In lieu of flowers, the family suggests donations be made to the building fund of the First Baptist Church.